jamf/README.md, before:

# Parallels Desktop VM Management for Jamf

This repository contains scripts and extensions for managing Parallels Desktop virtual machines through Jamf Pro.

## Overview

These scripts allow administrators to manage Windows VMs running in Parallels Desktop through Jamf Pro, including:

- Checking for and installing Windows updates
- Executing commands on Windows VMs
- Managing Parallels Desktop Guest Tools

## Scripts

### windows_vms_update.sh

A comprehensive script for managing Windows updates in Parallels Desktop VMs.

**Features:**

- Check for available Windows updates
- List detailed update information
- Install specific or all available updates
- Uninstall specific updates
- Update Parallels Desktop Guest Tools
- Support for both interactive and unattended operation

**Usage:**

```bash
./windows_vms_update.sh [MODE] [OPTIONS]
```

**Modes:**

- `list-updates` - List available updates for Windows VMs
- `install` - Install updates for specified VMs
- `uninstall` - Uninstall specific updates (requires --kb)
- `check` - Check for available updates
- `check-and-install` - Check for and install available updates

### execute_on_windows_vm.sh

A utility script to execute commands on Windows VMs through either Command Prompt or PowerShell.

**Features:**

- Execute commands on one or multiple VMs
- Support for both CMD and PowerShell execution
- Detailed output and error reporting

**Usage:**

```bash
./execute_on_windows_vm.sh [OPTIONS]
```

**Example:**

```bash
./execute_on_windows_vm.sh --mode pwsh --name "Windows VM" --command "Get-Process"
```

## Requirements

- Parallels Desktop for Mac
- jq (automatically installed by scripts if not present)
- macOS with Jamf Pro management

## Installation

1. Upload the scripts to your Jamf Pro server
2. Create policies that execute these scripts with appropriate parameters
3. Scope the policies to computers with Parallels Desktop installed

## Extensions

The repository also includes extensions that can be used with Jamf Pro to enhance Parallels VM management capabilities.

Commit message:

updated the windows update scripts

jamf/README.md, after:

# Parallels Desktop VM Management for Jamf

This repository contains scripts and extensions for managing Parallels Desktop virtual machines through Jamf Pro.

## Overview

These scripts allow administrators to manage Windows VMs running in Parallels Desktop through Jamf Pro, including:

- Checking for and installing Windows updates
- Executing commands on Windows VMs
- Managing Parallels Desktop Guest Tools

## Scripts

### windows_vms_update.sh

A comprehensive script for managing Windows updates in Parallels Desktop VMs. This will require the use of powershell and the ability to run scripts.
We will try to automatically enable these features, but if you are having issues, you can manually enable them.

**Features:**

- Check for available Windows updates
- List detailed update information
- Install specific or all available updates
- Uninstall specific updates
- Update Parallels Desktop Guest Tools
- Support for both interactive and unattended operation

**Usage:**

```bash
./windows_vms_update.sh [MODE] [OPTIONS]
```

**Modes:**

- `list-updates` - List available updates for Windows VMs
- `install` - Install updates for specified VMs
- `uninstall` - Uninstall specific updates (requires --kb)
- `check` - Check for available updates
- `check-and-install` - Check for and install available updates

### execute_on_windows_vm.sh

A utility script to execute commands on Windows VMs through either Command Prompt or PowerShell.

**Features:**

- Execute commands on one or multiple VMs
- Support for both CMD and PowerShell execution
- Detailed output and error reporting

**Usage:**

```bash
./execute_on_windows_vm.sh [OPTIONS]
```

**Example:**

```bash
./execute_on_windows_vm.sh --mode powershell --name "Windows VM" --command "Get-Process"
```

## Requirements

- Parallels Desktop for Mac
- jq (automatically installed by scripts if not present)
- macOS with Jamf Pro management

## Installation

1. Upload the scripts to your Jamf Pro server
2. Create policies that execute these scripts with appropriate parameters
3. Scope the policies to computers with Parallels Desktop installed

## Extensions

The repository also includes extensions that can be used with Jamf Pro to enhance Parallels VM management capabilities.
